# Scope and Goals

Research of today is driven by (sometimes large amounts of) data from various sources and of manifold aspects. Often this data is published as "open" data and within research projects. It is analyzed with general and expert software written by informaticians and domain scientists alike. The projects have a life span of 2 to 4 years. Often this software is deemed unfit for publication, although the idea of open source software is widespread. Too often though **the reason for not publishing the software is lack of time or knowledge**. This best practice will provide arguments and workflows that allow an effective and cost-worthy publication of research software as open source software.

The **target audience** are project managers, work group leaders, and scientists from all domains that use code for their research but do not publish it yet. The document provides a quick overview into relevant topics and provides references to more detailed work. Where useful it also contains short guides to answer practical questions.

We cannot cover specifc programming languages or specific libraries of application domains, such as hydrology, physics, or geomorphology.

On the one hand, the goal of this publication is to give research project leaders, principal investigators, and researchers a set of workflows and arguments that increases the amount of reusable open source software to optimize research and its impact.
On the other hand, the experiences behind this work come from participation of an open source initiative and small enterprise, which uses open source software as its means of doing applied research in the geoinformatics domain, in funded research projects. These experiences are put into writing for the first time to improve the process of doing problem-driven research within such an organisation.